The last video we discussed creating a repository to model all the different users that we create.
The reason we are doing this just to make sure it's really clear.
Right now we've got our poster quest handler right here to handle account creation.
So when a user makes a POST request we need to save some details about this user that is being created
namely their email and their password so they can later log in with that same email and password combination
because that we have to store this information somewhere and we're going to store that information by
using this repository pattern.
So we're going to have this one class that manages all the different users that get created inside our
application.
So now in this video we're going to start to create this user's repository.
This is going to be a class we create inside of a new file inside of our projects.
We're going to start to implement all these different methods one by one.
Of course right now we don't have a lot of functionality tied to some of these methods.
Like for example we haven't even discussed where we would be deleting a user or updating a user.
Nonetheless we're going to put all the functionality together right now from the get go because eventually
we will be using all these different methods in one way or another even if it doesn't appear to be the
case right now.
OK.
So to get started I got to go back towards my project directory I'm going to make a new folder called
repositories then inside they're going to create a new file called users dot J.S. so inside this new
File we're going to create a class called users repository and this class is going to have all those
different methods we just discussed.
So it's gonna have methods like it all get one random I.D. right all and so on so inside of this class
the first thing you need to do is make sure that we have some file on our harddrive that we can use
to store all of our information to.
Remember we had said that this repository and each of them really is going to have some backing either
users start Jason or products dot Jason File.
So the instant that we create a instance of users repository the first thing I want to do is check and
see if we have some file already created to store some information in if we don't then we should probably
create that file right away.
So to handle this I'm going to create a constructor function.
Remember constructor functions get called instantly whenever we create a new instance of a class the
name constructor is very special as an argument to its constructor function.
I'm going to expect to be passed a file name and this will be the file name or the name of the file
that we're going to eventually store all of our different users or products or whatever into inside
my constructor.
I'm going to immediately write in some code to make sure that we were passed a file name if we were
not given a file name.
When we create an instance of a repository well that means we don't know where we're going to save any
information.
So we should probably just throw an error right away and say sorry but we need a file name so I will
say if no file name.
If one was not provided then let's throw a new air and we'll get the text creating a repository requires
a file name now as we're ready on all the code for this repository.
We probably are going to want to test it to some degree rather than worrying about setting up some full
feature testing framework.
We're going to instead just write in some testing code down here at the bottom of the file every step
along the way and make sure that everything more or less works the way we expect.
So underneath my class to test out what we have so far I'm going to try to call new users repository
and I'm not going to pass in any argument.
So let's just make sure that we've we call this thing without any file name.
We see that error to run this thing.
I'm going to save the file and then going to go back over to my terminal.
I'm going to start my running server by hitting control C I will then change into that new repositories
directory.
So here's the repositories folder and I'm going to directly run users J us.
So I'll run node users dot J.S. then very quickly I see a big error message that says creating a repository
requires a file name.
Okay.
So I would definitely say that works out.
Now I know that we probably didn't have to do a test right away but I just want you to understand as
we develop all these different methods we will be writing out some code down here at the bottom just
to make sure everything works OK.
So now after we get past that check I'm going to take whatever file name was provided and store it inside
of an instance variable so I'll say this dot file name is file name then after that we're going to write
in some code right here to make sure that this file exists.
Remember if we don't have a file at the given file name we're going to create it right away.
The first thing I do is check to see if the file exists to do so.
Let's go back to our no J.S. F S module documentation and figure out how we can check to see if a file
exists on our harddrive a back inside my browser I will navigate to no J.S. dot org slash API
and then on the left hand side we can navigate down to file system.
So then inside of here we're going to look for a function called Access.
Here it is right here.
So the access function can be used to check to see if a file exists if it exists.
Well that means that we are good to go.
Otherwise in the context of our repository class you'll have to run some code to create the file the
access function comes in two different flavors.
We've either got this callback based one we've got the version at the very bottom.
The promise based version no that's under FSC dot promises and a third version.
I know I just said two but there actually is a third version called F S dot access sync which we can
scroll down.
It's the next function down right here.
The accessing function does the same thing as access but it executes Synchronicity which means there
is no callback involved.
So whenever we call access sync we're going to basically sit there and wait some number of milliseconds
as node tries to access the file system and check to see if this file exists from a performance standpoint.
We really don't want to use access sync in general however at this point we are in a real corner case
for our entire application.
You and I are only ever going to create exactly one instance of users repository just one.
We're going to have this one instance sitting around and whenever we need to work with our users we
are going to get access to that instance.
So in the context of users repository it is not the worst thing in the world to make use of access sync
because we're only going to call this function exactly one time for the entire lifecycle of our application
the other reason that we're going to use access sync instead of just the normal access or even the promise
based version is that we want to run the code to check to see if this file exists inside of our constructor
and constructor functions in JavaScript are not allowed to be async in nature.
So if we want to do this check to see if a file exists we would otherwise if we we're not going use
the sync version we would have to make some separate version of this function or a separate function
on here called something like check for file or something like that because this is a separate function
we could market as a sync but then every single time that we wanted to use it our users repository or
anytime we create a new one we would have to create the thing
assign it to a variable and then call check for file like so.
So again not super ideal because we would always have to have that additional method call because of
that we're going to go ahead and just kind of slightly cheat.
I would really not even call this a cheat.
I feel very comfortable recommending this as a solution to just call access sync from within that constructor.
So long story short inside our constructor we're going to call f s dot access sync and we're going to
check to see if that file exists.
I'm gonna make sure that I also require in F S at the very top
if that file does not exist.
It's going to throw an error.
So we're going to catch that error with a try catch statement like so so if we end up inside this catch
case that means the file does not exist and we're going to have to write or essentially create that
file so in order to create that file we're going to use another method from the F S module called right.
File and I'm going to find it somewhere inside of here.
Here we go right here so the FSA dot right file function takes the name of a file and is the second
argument some data to write into there.
Whenever we call this if a file with that given name doesn't exist it's going to create the file for
us.
So this is a perfect method to call to make sure that the file actually does exist.
Just like access sync.
There are two or technically three versions of this method.
We have FSC dot right file FSC dot promises right file.
And if we scroll down just a little bit s dot right file sync just like access sync if we call this
function right here there is no callback there's no async behavior we can call this function and then
essentially our code pauses or just kind of waits for a very long time as its function runs for the
same reasons as calling access sync inside the constructor we're going to use FSM dot right file sync
inside of here as well.
Again it is because we are not allowed to have async code inside of a constructor and it's also because
I expect to only ever create exactly one user's repository inside my application.
So I feel entirely ok using the right file sync method it's going to do FSM dot right file sync we'll
do this dot file name and then as a second argument I'm going to put in an empty array inside of a string.
We'll discuss why we're doing that in just a moment.
Don't worry about that just yet OK.
Let's not save this.
We're still creating our new users repository down here.
But now I'm going to update that line and make sure I pass in a file name to use.
So because we are storing some users I'm going to try to use a file called user dot Jason to store all
of my information okay.
So now in suddenly project directory right now I do not have a user's not JS on file.
I'm not going to save this.
I'm going to go back over to my terminal.
I'm going to run this file again.
And once I do I should see a user's not just on file up here inside my project directory and all it
should have inside of it is an empty array so I'll go back over I'm still inside of repositories.
I'm going to run users dot J.S. by then go back over to my editor I will see right there users dot Jason
and I mentioned just a moment ago that I would expect to see it inside my root project directory.
Eventually we will see inside the project directory.
Right now our users dot J.S. file is going to write that Jason File into the same directory that our
program is being executed from.
So eventually we're going to be executing our code from the e com directory.
So if I do node repositories users dot J.S..
Now the Jason file is created inside my root project directory.
But just as we're doing this testing that's going to be created inside of repositories instead if I
then open up either of these Jason files I will see an empty array inside their okay.
So this is a good start.
We are now ensuring that we've got some file name being provided and we are ensuring that that file
actually exists on our harddrive so now we'll take a quick pause as usual when we come back the next
video we're going to continue by implementing some of the different methods over here that we just discussed.